INTRODUCTION
-------------
->programming language that can be included on out  pages to make them 
more interactive 
->used to modify the content  of forms, change images, open new windows and write dynamic page content.
->used with css to make DHTML(Dynamic hperText makeUp language)
->this allows you to make parts of your web paes ppear or disappear or move around on the page.
->It only execte on the pages  that are on your browser  window at any set time.
->When the user stop viewing that page  , any script that were runnning on it are  immediately stopped.
->the only exceptions are cookies or various client side storage API, which can be used by many pages to store 
and pass information  between them, even after the pages have been closed.

->Java is a cient side, interpreted, object oriented, high level scripting language.

Lesson one
----------------
->computer graphics - Coined in 1960
                    -william Fetter
                    -consciously managed and documented technology directed toward communicating 
                    information  accurately and descriptively.
                    -takes things  a step further by allowing  users rapid visual feedback from their actions.
                    -Encompasses anything achieved visually on computers.
interactive computer graphics 
------------------------------
->Sketchpad - developed in 196os
            - first interactive computer graphics application
            
   Application of computer Graphics
   ---------------------------------
->Areas that hevy uses are:
                          Educations
                          Computer aided design
                          scientific visualisation
                          Films
                          Games
                          virtual/Augmented reality
 
 Lesson Two
 -----------------
 ->Computer graphics is all about math
 ->We need to understand this maths well in order to be able to understand certain techniques.
 ->
 
 Basic mathematical concepts
 ------------------------------
 ->Points - Given as an order pair(x, y)
            given as ordered triple (x, y,z)
 ->lines  - object that has a start point and end point.
          - in 2d(Xstart, Ystart)(Xend, Yend)
 ->Vectors - Difference between two points
           - has direction and length
           - show how to move from one point to another.
           - important for transformations
           -point coordinate are vector quantities, opposed to a single number  a scalar quantity.
           -Vector between two points:
                    v=p2-p1(x2-x1, y2-y1)
           -Vector length
                     |v| = Squareroot(V2X+V2y)
           - Vector addition
                     V1+V2 =(V1x+v2X, V1y+V2y)
           -Scalar multiplication
                    Multiple each of the components of the vector by the scalar
                    sV=(sVx, sVy)
           -Vector Dot product
                  sums the products of corresponding elements over a pair of vectors
                  Vector a = [a1, a2, a3, ...]
                         b = [b1, b2, b3...]
                         a.b= a1b1+a2b2+a3b3...]
                  Enables us to compute the angle θ between two vectors(if we normalise them first)
                    a.b=|a||b|cosθ
          -We can computer the square of the magnitude of a vector by taking the dot products of that vector and itself:
             ==|a|2
          -Vector Cross product              
                    
Lesson six 
-----------
->GRAPICS USING HTML CANVAS
-----------------------------
->canvas element is part of html five
->allows for dynamic, scripable rendering of 2D shapes and bitmap images.
->consist of a drawable region defined in HTML code height and  width attributes.
->javascript code may access the area though  a full set of drawing functions similar to those
of other common @D APIs , thus allowing dynamically generated    graphics.
->some uses of canvas are building graphics, animations, games and image composition.


Understanding the HTML five DOctype
------------------------------------
->A document type declaration, or DOCTYPE for short is an instruction to the web browser about 
the version of markup language in which a web page is written.
->According the HTML specification  of standard , every  HTML document require a valid document type  declaraion to 
ensure  that your web pages are displayed the way they aee intended to be displayed.
->


Canvas Elements Size versus Drawing surface size
---------------------------------------------------
->canvas have two sizes:
                  1)the size of the element(canvas) itself 
                  2)the sixe of the element's drawing surface.
->Setting the element's width and height attributes sets both of the these sizes;
->CSS attribute affect only the element's size and not the drawing surface.
->By difault, both the canvas element's size and the size of its drawing surface is 3000 screen
pixel wide and one  hundred and fifty screen pixels hight.
->When a canvas element's size does not match  the size of its drawing surface, the borwser scales the drawing surface to fit the element (which may result in surprising and unwanted effects.




Understanding the Canvas coordinates
---------------------------------------
->The canvas is a two-dimensional rectangular area.
->the coordinate of the top-left corner of the canvas are(0,0) which is known as the origin,
->The coordinate of the  bottom-right corner are(canvas width, canvas height)


Using Javascript to Access the canvas attributes
----------------------------------------------------
display and reset the canvas drawing dimension
------------------------------------------------
 <!DOCTYPE HTML>
 <html>
 <head>
 <style>
 #mycanvas{border:3px solid red;}
 </style>
 </head>
 <body>
 <canvas id ="mycanvas" width="100" height="100"></canvas>
 <script>
 var canvas =document.getElementById("mycanvas");
 //displaying the width and the height
 alert(canvas.width);
 alert(canvas.height);
 //increasing the width and height
 canvas.width=200;
 canvas.height=300;


CAT 1 Revision Questions
---------------------------
Computer graphics is Ubiquitous. What what do you understand by his statement?
Select one:
a. Computer graphics encompasses anything achieved visually on computers and it is applicable in a few or all disciplines in modern day life
b. Computer graphics encompasses anything achieved visually on computers and it is applicable in quite a number of areas in modern day life
c. Computer graphics encompasses anything achieved visually on computers and it is applicable in almost all disciplines in modern day life
d. Computer graphics encompasses a number of computing areas achieved visually on computers and in many disciplines in modern day life 
The correct answer is: Computer graphics encompasses anything achieved visually on computers and it is applicable in almost all disciplines in modern day life


Graphics pipeline consist of four stages, namely Modeling stage, Application Stage,Geometry Stage and Rasterization Stage. True/False?
Select one:
a. false
b. true 
The correct answer is: false


The statements below concerns an identity matrix. Which one is incorrect?
Select one:
a. The identity matrix does not affect the elements of any other matrix it is multiplied with
b. The identity matrix has zeroes everywhere except the leading diagonal which is set to 1 
c. The identity matrix is obtained by multiplying any matrix with its corresponding inverse
d. It is used heavily in transforming graphics objects.
The correct answer is: It is used heavily in transforming graphics objects.

You assert that Graphics pipeline consist of four stages, namely Modeling stage, Application Stage,Geometry Stage and Rasterization Stage. Which is the correct sequence of processing of these stages
Select one:
A. Modeling,Application,Geometry,Rasterization 
B. None of these
C. Apploication,Modeling,Geometry,Rasterization
D. Modeling,Geometry,Application,Rasterization
The correct answer is: None of these

Which stage in the graphics pipeline do much of the graphics processing?
The correct answer is: Geometry

Which stage of the graphics pipeline will benefit from a faster computer CPU?
The correct answer is: Application

The statements below describe characteristics of display systems. Which one is incorrect?
Select one:
a. Has a frame buffer which is a memory where the color values of the pixels are stored
b. Has depth (or precision) which is the number of color-bits per pixel 
c. Contains the GPU which writes the color value into the frame buffer among others
d. Contains the pipeline, which refers to a series of processing stages before display
e. Has refresh rate which the rate at which the display refreshes its screen per second
f. Has resolution which is the the number of rows by columns of the rectangular display grid
The correct answer is: Contains the pipeline, which refers to a series of processing stages before display




Each of the stages gets input data and gives an output. In which form is the input received by the rasterization engine?
Select one:
A. Meddelling Data 
B. Vector
C. Jaggies
D. Raster
The correct answer is: Vector


What is aliasing as applied in computer graphics
Select one:
a. This distortion artifacts produced when representing a high-resolution signal at a lower resolution
b. This distortion artifacts produced when representing a low-resolution signal at a higher resolution 
c. This distortion artifacts produced when representing a high-resolution signal at a high resolution
d. The task of removing aliases in an image and making it photorealistic
The correct answer is: This distortion artifacts produced when representing a low-resolution signal at a higher resolution


What is opacity in computer graphics and which property is used to set it?
Select one:
a. Opacity is a measure of the transparency/Opaqueness of an image. Its value ranges from 0 to 1 and can be set using the globalOpacity property.
b. Opacity is a measure of the transparency/Opaqueness of an image. It has a value ranging from 0 to 100 and can be set using the globalAlpha property. 
c. Opacity is a measure of the transparency/Opaqueness of an image. It has a value ranging from 0 to 1 and can be set using the globalAlpha property.
d. Opacity is a measure of the transparency/Opaqueness of an image. It has a value of either 0 or 1 and can be set using the globalOpacity property.
The correct answer is: Opacity is a measure of the transparency/Opaqueness of an image. It has a value ranging from 0 to 1 and can be set using the globalAlpha property.



What is Shading in computer graphics?
Select one:
a. Shading refers to the process of altering the color of an object in the 3D scene using phong techniques
b. Shading refers to the process of altering the color of an object in the 3D scene using flat shading methods 
c. Refers to the process of altering the color of an object in the 3D scene, based on its angle to lights and its distance from lights source to create a photorealistic effect
d. Shading refers to the process of altering the color of an object by use of the shading tool in graphic application
The correct answer is: Refers to the process of altering the color of an object in the 3D scene, based on its angle to lights and its distance from lights source to create a photorealistic effect


What is specular highlight as used in computer graphics?
Select one:
a. It is the bright spot of light that appears on shiny objects when illuminated light is perfectly reflected in a mirror-like way from the light source to the viewer Correct
b. A bright spot on an object obtained by use of flat shading and lighting techniques .
c. A bright spot on an object obtained by use of Goround shading and lighting techniques .
d. A bright spot on an object obtained by use of diffuse reflection and the law of reflection .
The correct answer is: It is the bright spot of light that appears on shiny objects when illuminated light is perfectly reflected in a mirror-like way from the light source to the viewer


Texture mapping is one of the important image processing in computer graphics. What is its significance?
Select one:
a. It enables the use of a 3D image file that can be applied to the surface of a 3D model to add color, texture, or other surface detail like glossiness, reflectivity, or transparency. Incorrect
b. This is the use of a 3D image file that can be applied to the surface of a2D model to add color, texture, or other surface detail like glossiness, reflectivity, or transparency.
c. It is used in the  task of combining two or more images to create a more complicated image
d. It enables the use of a 2D image file that can be applied to the surface of a 3D model to add color, texture, or other surface detail like glossiness, reflectivity, or transparency.
The correct answer is: It enables the use of a 2D image file that can be applied to the surface of a 3D model to add color, texture, or other surface detail like glossiness, reflectivity, or transparency.


What is the result of cross product of any two vectors?
Select one:
a. It is a scaler product that is the magnitude of the two vectors Incorrect
b. It is a vector product which is a projection of one of the vector to the other
c. It is a vector parallel to the two vectors.
d. It is a vector othoganl to the two vectors.
The correct answer is: It is a vector othoganl to the two vectors.




Which graphic processing task that benefits from vector cross product?
The correct answer is: Shading


Which of the pipe line stage requires use of matrices?
Select one:
a. Geometry Stage Correct
b. Transformation stage
c. Application Stage,
d. Rasterization Stage.
The correct answer is: Geometry Stage


Which of the pipe line stage requires use of vectors?
Select one:
a. Application Stage,
b. Geometry Stage
c. Transformation stage 
d. Rasterization Stage.
The correct answer is: Geometry Stage



Which of the statement below is correct about a Pixel?
Select one:
a. A pixel has three properties a color, a position and is raster-based.
b. A pixel has two properties a color and a grid position expressed in (x,y) coordinates..
c. A pixel has two properties a color and a raster position.
d. A pixel has two properties a color and a vector.
The correct answer is: A pixel has two properties a color and a grid position expressed in (x,y) coordinates..



Which pipe line stage brings about a more realistic graphic image?
Select one:
a. Display stage
b. Application Stage,
c. Geometry Stage
d. Rasterization Stage. 
The correct answer is: Geometry Stage

You are given the point P1 (7, 10) and P2(10,7). What is the vector between them?
Select one:
a. (17,17)
b. (-3,3)
c. (-3,-3)
d. (3,-3) 
The correct answer is: (3,-3)



You are given the points P1 (7, 10) and P2(10,7). What is the magnitude of the vector between them?
The correct answer is: 3


You are given the point P1 (7, 10) and P2(10,7). What is the is the projection of vector P1 on P2?
The correct answer is: 140


You want to map the vector P1 (7, 10) to a 3D coordinate system. What do you do?
The correct answer is: homogeneous



You are given the vector (-4,-3) What is its magnitude?
Select one:
a. 7
b. -7 
c. 5
d. -5
The correct answer is: 5



Give any three characteristics of light that affect the quality of a graphic in computer graphic.
The correct answer is: Reflection


In computer graphics which projection results in less loss of image details?
The correct answer is: Parallel


You are given the vector A(4,3) and B(3,4) What is the projection of B on A?
Select one:
a. 24
b. 25
c. 84.6 
d. 0.094117647
The correct answer is: 25




The following factors contribute to the quality of a computer graphic. Which ones does not.?

CPU speed

Angle of reflection

Angle of refraction

Distance of the source of light

The size of the frustum

Pixels levels of the camera

The objects material
Select one:
A. i,v,vi,
B. None of the above
C. i,v,vi,vii Incorrect
D. i,iii,v,vi
The correct answer is: i,iii,v,vi




You are given the matrix M ({4 5 6}{7 6 5}{3 2 1}). Give the transpose of matirx M.
The correct answer is: ({4 7 3}{5 6 2}{6 5 1})


In computer graphics which projection gives a real camera like image.
The correct answer is: Perspective




